🧑‍💻 J.A.R.V.I.S. Deployment Guide

This document outlines the mandatory procedures for installing the prerequisite software, securely configuring the API credential, and deploying the J.A.R.V.I.S. assistant.

Section I: Prerequisite Installation and Environment Setup

Successful operation of the application requires proper initialization of the Python environment and installation of dependencies.

Python Requirement: It is imperative that a modern version of the Python 3 interpreter (specifically version 3.8 or newer) is installed on the local machine.

Project Acquisition: The project files must be cloned or downloaded into a designated local directory.

Command Line Access: Access the system command-line interface (CLI), such as the Terminal or PowerShell, and navigate to the project root directory where the jarvis_core.py file is located.

cd /path/to/JarvisProject


Dependency Installation: Execute the following command to install all requisite libraries specified in the requirements.txt file:

pip install -r requirements.txt


Section II: Mandatory Security and API Configuration

To ensure the confidentiality of the Gemini API Key and prevent its exposure on version control platforms, the key must be supplied via an environment variable.

Credential Acquisition: A functional Gemini API Key must be obtained from the official Google AI documentation.

Environment Variable Assignment: The following procedure for variable assignment is essential and must be executed prior to launching the application. The environment variable must be named GEMINI_API_KEY.

Operating System

Command for Session-Based Assignment

Windows (Command Prompt/PowerShell)

set GEMINI_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY_HERE

Linux/macOS (Terminal)

export GEMINI_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY_HERE

Note: Substitute YOUR_API_KEY_HERE with the actual credential obtained. It should be recognized that this assignment is typically temporary and valid only for the current terminal session. Permanent configuration necessitates updating system-level environment variables.

Section III: Application Deployment

Upon successful installation of dependencies and configuration of the API variable, the application may be deployed using one of the following methods.

Option A: Run Directly (Requires Installed Python Interpreter)

The primary Python script can be executed directly via the interpreter:

python jarvis_core.py


Option B: Compilation to Standalone Executable (Recommended for Distribution and Aesthetic Consistency)

This method utilizes PyInstaller to produce a single, self-contained executable file, which embeds the application's custom icon and eliminates the necessity for a visible Python installation on the target system.

Icon File Verification: Verification of the icon file (Screenshot 2025-10-30 234502.ico) within the project root directory is required.

Compilation Command: Execute the following command to initiate the build process:

pyinstaller --onefile --icon="Screenshot 2025-10-30 234502.ico" jarvis_core.py


Application Launch: The final program file, designated as jarvis_core.exe, will be located in the newly generated dist folder. The application is executed by double-clicking this file.
